lab-setup/apple-arm/seedvm-fusion.md, before:

# Lab Setup for Apple Silicon Machines

## Local Setup for Apple Silicon Machines [For Web Security Labs]

Note: This method is only tested for the web security labs with Labsetup for arm version.

For this we are assuming that you have docker setup in your machine. If you don't have docker setup in your machine, please follow the instructions from [here](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/mac/install/).

### Step 1: Install Homebrew
To install Homebrew, open the terminal and run the following command.

```/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"```

If you got an error ```xcode-select: error:
invalid developer directory '/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools'``` during the install Homebrew which is because your Xcode is not installed or not set appropriately.  So far ```/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools``` is not valid directory for ```xcode-select```.

![xcode-select: error](Figs/xcode-select-error.png)

You can run the following command in the terminal to double check there is no active developer directory.

```xcode-select -p```

![error: no-active-directory](Figs/error-no-active-directory.png)

To solve that, you run the following command in the terminal to install xcode-select

```xcode-select --install```

![xcode-select: install](Figs/xcode-select-install.png)

![xcode-select: install GUI](Figs/xcode-select-install-GUI.png)

If after installing homebrew you are not able to access brew, run the following command in the terminal.

```echo 'eval $(/opt/homebrew/bin/brew shellenv)' >> ~/.zprofile```

```eval $(/opt/homebrew/bin/brew shellenv)```

### Step 2: Install ```docker-mac-net-connect``` using Homebrew
This is required to connect the docker container to the host network. To install docker-mac-net-connect, open the terminal and run the following command.

```brew install chipmk/tap/docker-mac-net-connect```

And then start the service using the following command.

```sudo brew services start chipmk/tap/docker-mac-net-connect```

![brew services start](Figs/brew-services-start.png)


## VMware Fusion Player Setup for Apple Silicon Machines

### Step 1: Install VMware Fusion Player on Apple Silicon Machines

Go to [VMware Fusion](https://customerconnect.vmware.com/en/evalcenter?p=fusion-player-personal-13) and register for a free Fusion Player license. Then under License & Download, click on `Manually Download`.

![VMware Fusion Player](Figs/vmware-fusion-player-web.png)

Installation is straight forward. Download the dmg file manually from the link provided in the installation page. Double click on the dmg file and follow the instructions.

After the installation is finished, you can start the VMware Fusion Player. You will be asked to enter your license key which will be there on the installation page.

After you have entered the license key, you will be asked to allow the kernel extensions. Click on `Open Security Preferences`.

In the Security & Privacy settings, click on `Allow` to allow the kernel extensions.

### Step 2: Install Ubuntu on VMware Fusion Player

Now we have to download the Ubuntu ISO image. Go to [Ubuntu 22.04.3](https://cdimage.ubuntu.com/jammy/daily-live/current/) and download the Ubuntu 22.04.3 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish) Daily Build. Make sure you download the `64-bit ARM (ARMv8/AArch64) desktop image`.

![Ubuntu ISO](Figs/ubuntu-iso.png)

After the download is finished, start the VMware Fusion Player. Click on `Create a New Virtual Machine`.

Now in Select the Installation Method, select `Install from disc or image` and click on `Continue`.

![VMware Fusion Player Create New Virtual Machine](Figs/vmware-fusion-player-create-new-virtual-machine.png)

Select `Use another disc or disc image...` and click on `Continue`. Now select the downloaded Ubuntu ISO image and click on `Open`.

![VMware Fusion Player Select ISO](Figs/vmware-fusion-player-select-iso.png)

Now click on `Continue`. In the next screen, make sure that 2 CPUs and 4 GB of RAM are selected. Click on `Finish`.

![VMware Fusion Player Finish](Figs/vmware-fusion-player-finish.png)

The VM will be created and started. After the VM is started, click on `Try or insall Ubuntu`.

![VMware Fusion Player Try or Install Ubuntu](Figs/vmware-fusion-player-try-or-install-ubuntu.png)

You will be greeted with Ubuntu home screen. As this is the test environment you will have to click on the `Install Ubuntu` icon on the desktop.

![Ubuntu Home Screen](Figs/ubuntu-home-screen.png)

During Installation select Minimal Installation and click on `Continue`.

![Ubuntu Installation](Figs/ubuntu-installation.png)

In the next screen, select `Erase disk and install Ubuntu` and click on `Install Now`.

![Ubuntu Installation](Figs/ubuntu-installation-erase.png)

Create a user with name `seed` and password `dees` and click on `Continue`.

![Ubuntu Installation](Figs/ubuntu-installation-user.png)

The installation will start. After the installation is finished, click on `Restart Now`.

If the is giving an error, just remove the ISO image from the VM and restart the VM. To do that go to `Virtual Machine` -> `Settings` -> `CD/DVD (SATA)` and uncheck `Connect CD/DVD Drive`. Click on `Apply` and `OK`. Now restart the VM.

![Ubuntu Installation](Figs/ubuntu-installation-cd.png)

Now you will be greeted with the home screen.

## Step 3: Install Software and Configure System


Go to terminal download curl using
```
sudo apt-get install curl
```

Download [`src-cloud.zip`](https://seed.nyc3.cdn.digitaloceanspaces.com/src-cloud.zip)
  from the link or using the following command (if copy-and-paste does not work
  between your host machine and VMware, you can browse this manual inside VM Ubuntu 22.04 using Firefox, then you can copy-and-paste):
  ```
  curl -o src-cloud.zip https://seed.nyc3.cdn.digitaloceanspaces.com/src-cloud.zip
  ```

In order to unzip the file, we first need to install the `unzip` program
  using the following command. After that, unzip the file.
  ```
  sudo apt update
  sudo apt -y install unzip
  unzip src-cloud.zip
  ```

After unzipping the file, you will see a `src-cloud` folder.
  Enter this folder, and run the following command to install software
  and configure the system.
  ```
  ./install.sh
  ```

- **Note:** This shell script will download and install all the software needed for
  the SEED labs. The whole process will take a few minutes. Please
  don't leave, because you will be asked twice to make choices:

  - During the installation of Wireshark, you will be asked
    whether non-superuser should be able to capture packets.
    Select `No`.

  - During the installation of `xfce4`, you will be asked to
    choose a default display manager. Choose `LightDM`.


After the script finishes, we can switch to the `seed`
account using the following command:
```
sudo su seed
```

### Step 4: Setup Docker and Docker Compose

After done with the setup we have to set the docker default platform to linux/arm64. Go to terminal and type the following command.

```export DOCKER_DEFAULT_PLATFORM=linux/arm64```

Docker-compose is not available for arm64 architecture. So we have to install it manually. Go to terminal and type the following commands.

```sudo curl -L "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/v2.11.2/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m)" -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose```

```sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose```

Now you can use docker-compose in your VM.

Commit message:

Adding a solution to set up the Bidirectional Shared Clipboard between MacOS and VMware Fusion

lab-setup/apple-arm/seedvm-fusion.md, after:

# Lab Setup for Apple Silicon Machines

## Local Setup for Apple Silicon Machines [For Web Security Labs]

Note: This method is only tested for the web security labs with Labsetup for arm version.

For this we are assuming that you have docker setup in your machine. If you don't have docker setup in your machine, please follow the instructions from [here](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/mac/install/).

### Step 1: Install Homebrew
To install Homebrew, open the terminal and run the following command.

```/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"```

If you got an error ```xcode-select: error:
invalid developer directory '/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools'``` during the install Homebrew which is because your Xcode is not installed or not set appropriately.  So far ```/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools``` is not valid directory for ```xcode-select```.

![xcode-select: error](Figs/xcode-select-error.png)

You can run the following command in the terminal to double check there is no active developer directory.

```xcode-select -p```

![error: no-active-directory](Figs/error-no-active-directory.png)

To solve that, you run the following command in the terminal to install xcode-select

```xcode-select --install```

![xcode-select: install](Figs/xcode-select-install.png)

![xcode-select: install GUI](Figs/xcode-select-install-GUI.png)

If after installing homebrew you are not able to access brew, run the following command in the terminal.

```echo 'eval $(/opt/homebrew/bin/brew shellenv)' >> ~/.zprofile```

```eval $(/opt/homebrew/bin/brew shellenv)```

### Step 2: Install ```docker-mac-net-connect``` using Homebrew
This is required to connect the docker container to the host network. To install docker-mac-net-connect, open the terminal and run the following command.

```brew install chipmk/tap/docker-mac-net-connect```

And then start the service using the following command.

```sudo brew services start chipmk/tap/docker-mac-net-connect```

![brew services start](Figs/brew-services-start.png)


## VMware Fusion Player Setup for Apple Silicon Machines

### Step 1: Install VMware Fusion Player on Apple Silicon Machines

Go to [VMware Fusion](https://customerconnect.vmware.com/en/evalcenter?p=fusion-player-personal-13) and register for a free Fusion Player license. Then under License & Download, click on `Manually Download`.

![VMware Fusion Player](Figs/vmware-fusion-player-web.png)

Installation is straight forward. Download the dmg file manually from the link provided in the installation page. Double click on the dmg file and follow the instructions.

After the installation is finished, you can start the VMware Fusion Player. You will be asked to enter your license key which will be there on the installation page.

After you have entered the license key, you will be asked to allow the kernel extensions. Click on `Open Security Preferences`.

In the Security & Privacy settings, click on `Allow` to allow the kernel extensions.

### Step 2: Install Ubuntu on VMware Fusion Player

Now we have to download the Ubuntu ISO image. Go to [Ubuntu 22.04.3](https://cdimage.ubuntu.com/jammy/daily-live/current/) and download the Ubuntu 22.04.3 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish) Daily Build. Make sure you download the `64-bit ARM (ARMv8/AArch64) desktop image`.

![Ubuntu ISO](Figs/ubuntu-iso.png)

After the download is finished, start the VMware Fusion Player. Click on `Create a New Virtual Machine`.

Now in Select the Installation Method, select `Install from disc or image` and click on `Continue`.

![VMware Fusion Player Create New Virtual Machine](Figs/vmware-fusion-player-create-new-virtual-machine.png)

Select `Use another disc or disc image...` and click on `Continue`. Now select the downloaded Ubuntu ISO image and click on `Open`.

![VMware Fusion Player Select ISO](Figs/vmware-fusion-player-select-iso.png)

Now click on `Continue`. In the next screen, make sure that 2 CPUs and 4 GB of RAM are selected. Click on `Finish`.

![VMware Fusion Player Finish](Figs/vmware-fusion-player-finish.png)

The VM will be created and started. After the VM is started, click on `Try or insall Ubuntu`.

![VMware Fusion Player Try or Install Ubuntu](Figs/vmware-fusion-player-try-or-install-ubuntu.png)

You will be greeted with Ubuntu home screen. As this is the test environment you will have to click on the `Install Ubuntu` icon on the desktop.

![Ubuntu Home Screen](Figs/ubuntu-home-screen.png)

During Installation select Minimal Installation and click on `Continue`.

![Ubuntu Installation](Figs/ubuntu-installation.png)

In the next screen, select `Erase disk and install Ubuntu` and click on `Install Now`.

![Ubuntu Installation](Figs/ubuntu-installation-erase.png)

Create a user with name `seed` and password `dees` and click on `Continue`.

![Ubuntu Installation](Figs/ubuntu-installation-user.png)

The installation will start. After the installation is finished, click on `Restart Now`.

If the is giving an error, just remove the ISO image from the VM and restart the VM. To do that go to `Virtual Machine` -> `Settings` -> `CD/DVD (SATA)` and uncheck `Connect CD/DVD Drive`. Click on `Apply` and `OK`. Now restart the VM.

![Ubuntu Installation](Figs/ubuntu-installation-cd.png)

Now you will be greeted with the home screen.

## Step 3: Setup Bidirectional Shared Clipboard


As the default setting, the copy-and-paste does not work between your host machine MacOS and VMware Fusion, which is not convenient. You can install ```vmware tools``` to achieve Bidirectional Shared Clipboard by running following commands.
```
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get install open-vm-tools-desktop -y
sudo reboot
```


## Step 4: Install Software and Configure System


Go to terminal download curl using
```
sudo apt-get install curl
```

Download [`src-cloud.zip`](https://seed.nyc3.cdn.digitaloceanspaces.com/src-cloud.zip)
  from the link or using the following command (if copy-and-paste does not work
  between your host machine MacOS and VMware Fusion, you can browse this manual inside VM Ubuntu 22.04 using Firefox, then you can copy-and-paste):
  ```
  curl -o src-cloud.zip https://seed.nyc3.cdn.digitaloceanspaces.com/src-cloud.zip
  ```

In order to unzip the file, we first need to install the `unzip` program
  using the following command. After that, unzip the file.
  ```
  sudo apt update
  sudo apt -y install unzip
  unzip src-cloud.zip
  ```

After unzipping the file, you will see a `src-cloud` folder.
  Enter this folder, and run the following command to install software
  and configure the system.
  ```
  ./install.sh
  ```

- **Note:** This shell script will download and install all the software needed for
  the SEED labs. The whole process will take a few minutes. Please
  don't leave, because you will be asked twice to make choices:

  - During the installation of Wireshark, you will be asked
    whether non-superuser should be able to capture packets.
    Select `No`.

  - During the installation of `xfce4`, you will be asked to
    choose a default display manager. Choose `LightDM`.


After the script finishes, we can switch to the `seed`
account using the following command:
```
sudo su seed
```

### Step 5: Setup Docker and Docker Compose

After done with the setup we have to set the docker default platform to linux/arm64. Go to terminal and type the following command.

```export DOCKER_DEFAULT_PLATFORM=linux/arm64```

Docker-compose is not available for arm64 architecture. So we have to install it manually. Go to terminal and type the following commands.

```sudo curl -L "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/v2.11.2/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m)" -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose```

```sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose```

Now you can use docker-compose in your VM.
