ctf/category-software/I_Go_By_Netcow_Now/README.md, before:

# Building the Docker Container

If you have not build the Docker container before, or have made changes that warrant a rebuild, follow these steps:

1. cd into the `I_Go_By_Netcow_Now` directory
2. Run the `build.sh` script

# Starting the Docker Container

Ensure that you have build the Docker container before running (see above instructions).

1. cd into `I_Go_By_Netcow_Now` directory
2. Run the `start.sh` script

You can then verify that the container is running by executing `$ sudo docker ps` and seeing if the netcow container is listed among the running containers.

# Stopping the Docker Container

1. cd into `I_Go_By_Netcow_Now` directory
2. Run the `stop.sh` script

You can then verify that the container has stopped by executing `$ sudo docker ps` and seeing if the netcow container is listed among the running containers.

# Modifying the flag

To change the flag for future semesters follow these steps:

1. Modify `I_Go_By_Netcow_Now/src/flag.txt` to your desired flag.
2. Rebuild the container using the above instructions.

Commit message:

Updated README.md with instructions for students to connect, and add connection instructions to zip files.

ctf/category-software/I_Go_By_Netcow_Now/README.md, after:

# Instructors

## Building the Docker Container

If you have not build the Docker container before, or have made changes that warrant a rebuild, follow these steps:

1. cd into the `I_Go_By_Netcow_Now` directory
2. Run the `build.sh` script

## Starting the Docker Container

Ensure that you have build the Docker container before running (see above instructions).

1. cd into `I_Go_By_Netcow_Now` directory
2. Run the `start.sh` script

You can then verify that the container is running by executing `$ sudo docker ps` and seeing if the netcow container is listed among the running containers.

## Stopping the Docker Container

1. cd into `I_Go_By_Netcow_Now` directory
2. Run the `stop.sh` script

You can then verify that the container has stopped by executing `$ sudo docker ps` and seeing if the netcow container is listed among the running containers.

## Modifying the flag

To change the flag for future semesters follow these steps:

1. Modify `I_Go_By_Netcow_Now/src/flag.txt` to your desired flag.
2. Rebuild the container using the above instructions.

---

# Students

## Connecting to the Server

Students should use the netcat utility to connect to the server hosting the challenge.
To connect, simply execute `$ nc <server-ip> 3000` to establish a TCP connection to the server.
